.TH GEHEIM 1 "JUNE 2026" "1.0.3" "geheim Manual"
.SH NAME
geheim \- Encodes/Decodes a file by generating a key from its own content.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B geheim
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIfile\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B geheim
is a command-line tool written in C that encodes/decodes a specified file.
It works seamlessly on Unix, Linux and macOS.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \--help
Display a short help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \--version
Version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \--overwrite
Will encode/decode the specified filename onto itself.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \--encode
Encode the specified file. Omitting this option will decode the specified file.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \--file
Followed by the filename to be encoded/decoded.
.SH PASSPHRASE
.TP
You will be prompted to enter a passphrase. This optional coding step will be bypassed by not providing one (a blank return).
.TP
If a passphrase is entered during the encoding process, this same passphrase must be entered when decoding the file.
.TP
This optional additional encryption will augment the standard encryption to make it suitable to be encoded by specific individuals.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.BR Encode:
geheim -e -f filename
.TP
.BR Decode:
geheim -f filename
.TP
.BR Encode " and " overwrite:
geheim -e -o -f filename
.SH NOTES
.TP
The resulting file of an Encoding or Decoding request will have the extention \fB.geheim\fR attached to it, unless the overwrtie flag (-o or --overwrite) is set. 
.TP
If the overwrite flag is set the result will be overwriting the original content.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.TP
.BR 0
Success.
.TP
.BR 1
A process, non-exisiting file or specified option flag(s) (omission/unknown) error. An apropriate error message will be displayed.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/doc/geheim/README.md
Documentation to The project.
.SH LICENSE
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/doc/geheim/LICENSE
MIT license.
.SH AUTHOR
yves hoebeke  (bytesupply@proton.me)
